Hi, this is Scott. I
really appreciate our sponsors because
they make the show possible.
Today's show is sponsored by
Tellerik create compelling app experiences
across any screen with the
Tellerik platform Telerx end to
end platform. Uniquely combines industry
leading UI tools with cloud
services to simplify the entire
app development cycle Tellerik offers
everything.net developers need to build
quality apps faster. Try it
free at tellerik.com/platform that's tellerik.com/platform
From hanselminutes.com. It's Hansel minutes,
our weekly discussion with web
developer and technologist Scott Hanselman.
This is Lawrence Ryan announcing show
number 505. In this episode,
Scott talks with I fix
it CEO and co founder.
Kyle Weems about the importance
of fixing your own consumer
electronics. This is Scott Hanselman.
This is another episode of
Hansel minutes today. We're talking
with Kyle Wiens, he's the
co founder and CEO of
I fix it.com and a
big fan of not wasting
technology, fixing it being empowered.
Aren't you? Absolutely. I, our
goal in life is to
make everything that you've got
last as long as possible.
Yeah, so I fix it
is it's a, it's a
free repair guide. It's a,
it's not quite the Wikipedia
of repair, but it is
the place that I go
when I have a device
that it needs to be
fixed. I've gone there to
find, you know, which capacitor
burned out in my Nintendo
three DS I've replaced screens
on Android phones. How did
this start? And we're getting
pretty close to being the
Wikipedia. We are working our
way incrementally. We're adding, I
mean, thousands of new, new
things every year. So we
got started when I was
trying to repair my book.
I dropped it on the
power plug and I had,
I knew I just had
a cracked solder joint. If
I kind of held the
power plug just right. I
could get in and fix
it. And so I started
trying to take it apart
and I realized very quickly
that the process of pulling
the thing apart was much
more challenging than I was
expecting. There were lots of
little plastic tabs and latches
and just the process of
taking this thing apart was
complicated. And so I did
with anybody would do I
Googled it and I couldn't
find a repair manual or
repair information for available anywhere.
And I thought this was
crazy. And so I went
ahead and I kinda muddled
my way through the repair.
And then I said, there's
gotta be a better way.
There's gotta be, you know,
somebody has to do something
and I realize nobody was
going to do anything about
it. So I took it
apart again. I took pictures
and we posted them online
and that was the beginning.
And then I did a
little bit more research and
I learned that Apple has
proactively been sending cease and
desist letters to anybody that
shares their repair manuals. So
once we realized that it
kind of turned into a
bit of a religious crusade
where we said going to
make sure that there's repair
information online for everything Wow,
does has apples and you
nasty grams asking you to
stop. We're very good at
copyright law. And so we
haven't really pushed the envelope
with them on that. We
make sure that everything that
we do, we own the
copyright to our community owns
the copyright. And so there's
nothing they can do. It's
just like, you know, lifting
the hood on your car,
Taking pictures. And that's an
interesting analogy, like lifting hood
and lifting the hood of
your car and taking pictures
that that is our right.
Like, it should be our
right as consumers to open
a device up and mess
with it. Should it not?
I absolutely think so. And
there's something about society moving
away from an engineering culture
where we, we shifted from
being a culture Makers to
where we're just consumers. And
so, you know, they hand
us a shiny iPod or
a new galaxy and they
say, this is it. It's
pristine. It's going to work
until it stops. And then
you'll come to us and
we'll give you a new
one or we'll sell you
a new one. And I
don't think that that teaches
the right kind of societal
structure that we want. I
think that if we understand
how to get inside thinker
with things, we're going to
be better people we're going
to be better consumers. You
know, some people have taken
me to task and said
that it's not necessarily in
the personalities of everyone to,
to know that one additional
layer of abstraction, right? Like
I always talk about like
driving an automatic versus driving
a stick shift, you know,
of course the U S
this is speaking kind of
ethnocentric leave the U S
is becoming a, a country
of people who drive automatics,
right? There's still everyone else
on the planet drives manual
shift. But when I got
a car, you know, in
the, in the eighties and
early nineties, it was part
of the requirement that I
also know how to change
the oil. Like that was
how I was taught. My
mom and dad said, you
won't drive a car until
you can successfully, you know,
change the oil. And, and
just literally just today, my
wife had a flashing light
on her car, had a
low tire, you know, and
I fixed it and I,
and she didn't understand how
to do it. And I
realized that it wasn't in
the culture that she grew
up in to, to know
that, right. How far, how
far down should people go?
Like, I mean, I don't
think everyone should necessarily know
how to solder, but they
should be able to pop
something open. There's a spectrum.
We find once you get
inside and you do a
repair, it, you kind of
get hooked and you start
to understand things. I mean,
you imagine being stuck on
the side of the road,
the road, it's amazing how
many people can't change a
tire if they're stuck on
the side of a road.
And so you see somebody
stuck and you pull over
and you're like, Hey, can
I change your tire for
you? And they're like, Oh,
that'd be amazing. I don't
have any idea how to
do this. Well, you've put
yourself in the position where
you're helpless. And I think
as consumers, we get in
a situation where we don't
know how to say, change
the battery on the phone,
and we're allowing the manufacturers
to make us helpless. It
seems like They're not just
trying to make us helpless,
but they are going out
of their way to like,
are there engineering reasons for
them to make these things
so hard to open? There
are always designed constraints when
you get, get into these
things. So if you're a
product designer, industrial designer, just
like in software, we start
out with our requirements. And
then we set out to
build the best product that
meets the requirements. Product designers
are given business requirements. They
say, this is approximately the
battery life that we're going
for. This is the thickness
that we're going for. This
is whether we care or
not about repairability at Dell.
Their designers are given the
clear mandate that the products
must be designed to be
easy, to disassemble, easy to
repair, easy to recycle. And
that's part of the design
process. You know, that's interesting
that you call out Dell
because at least 15 years
ago, when every machine that
I had was a Dell
desktop, you know, they were
always known for being easy
to open. They had the
easy finger, nuts and bolts.
You know, you didn't even
need a screwdriver to open
up a Dell and write
and do stuff with it.
Right? Well, and Dell has
serviceability engineers who have veto
power over product designs. So
they'll get a design from
the industrial design team and
they take a look at
it. And if, if things
are too challenging to open,
they get, they get the
pushback and say, no, you
need to try again. And
on the other side, Dell
actually takes their designers, their
industrial design team to recycling
facilities. And they pull apart
their products. At least once
a year, they get a
feel for what the end
of life of these people.
It looks like she, that
seems like a really good
thing and really responsible thing,
but not to get too
political, but one could argue,
Dell is not winning, right.
Certainly on the tablet front,
they're not winning. And I'm
not sure that it's the,
that it's the products that
are the challenge for them,
or, or if it's a
marketing thing. Yeah. I recently
went and bought some stuff
from, I fix it. And
I went to the repair
guide and I replaced the
screen on an Android S3.
I realized that that this
is probably pretty simple. You
know, this is maybe in
the lower to middle difficulty
thing, but it did involve
a heat gun, which I
must admit. And I apologize
for admitting this publicly. I
did not know that that
was a thing until I
did this, you know, like
there's a thing And it
sets your hair on fire
Sets your hair on fire,
but it was so harrowing.
It was so scary to
take the screen off of
this thing, because the, I
didn't realize, but there's an
optically bonded glue behind the
screen. And I had to
pull the thing off with
a, with a wire. I
felt like I was like
a, like an assassin. I'm
trying to Garrett someone, but
it was so powerful. I
actually replaced it. And it
looks really good, right? This
is something, you know, w
we come out with our
repairability scores when the product
comes out. And sometimes people
give us a hard time.
And specifically the display and
optical and a digitizer being
bonded together was something where
people said, Oh, well, you
know, you didn't get the
whole point for that issue.
And we say, well, you
know, we just spent six
hours taking the cell phone
apart. And we have the
like cuts and bruises to
show for it. Like if
it got a low score,
we worked very, very hard
in the process of figuring
out how to pull apart.
Honestly, the lower the repair
score, the harder the tear
down is Yeah. I ended
up spending probably two on
that. You gave the S3
a repairability of eight out
of 10, because for the
most part, the back pops
off and it's pretty easy
to get. Right. But when
you get into the front
glass, you know, it says
difficulty difficult. Yeah. When, and
the repair score was assuming
that Maybe replacing the entire
display assembly, which is a
much more expensive to repair
than what you did, where
you just replaced. Yeah. Valid
point for me, the phone
was only, it was like
I said, it was an
S three. So it was
worth about a hundred dollars.
And the screen was going
to cost me about a
hundred dollars. So I put
15 bucks into it, right.
Not counting the, the repair
stuff that I got from
you guys, which I use
now all the time, every
day. Right. And this is
the case across most funds.
You have that you have
the digitizer, which is the
touch screen that you, you
touch. And then you have
the LCD and they are
bonded together. Sometimes they're not
at all at just set
on top of the other.
And there's a, there's an
air gap. And then on,
on a lot of the
newer devices, they're extremely tightly
fuse together. And you can't
even do it with, with,
I mean, what, what you
did with the galaxy S
three, with just a small
wire, with the newer devices,
you have to have an
even finer molybdenum wire to
be able to get it
apart. Why are we moving
in this direction of things
being not fixable? Is it,
is it laziness? I mean,
like, if you look at
like the surface book or
the surface pro, they really
just, aren't easy to fix,
are they when you tear
them down and they're not
going back together? Yeah. Microsoft's
design team has really decided
that it's not a priority
for them, which I think
is fascinating because the Xbox
team has really decided that
repairability is something that matters
to them. And both the,
both the new Xbox one
and the, the Sony PlayStation
are, are pretty easy and
straight away Repair the controllers
are straightforward and easy to
repair. The surface team is
kind of off doing their
own thing. Yeah. I think
an interesting case study right
now are the two new
nexus phones. You've got the
five X that's made by
LG, and then you have
the six P that's made
by Walway and they're, you
know, two nexus phones or
the two flagship phones right
now from Google side. And
they both came out at
the same time. One is
very, very easy to repair
the LG phone. That's very
straight, got the great repairability
score and the Walway is
terrible. So what's, what's the
deal. How do we have,
I mean, this is a
tale of two phones. I
think, I think that there,
it just comes down to
the design philosophy of, of
the team and whether the
constraints that you have going
into it. LG has won
some awards recently for how
easy to disassemble their devices
are. And their design team
has made it a priority.
It's always easier to glue
things together. It's cheaper to
manufacture them. It's easier to
get, get durability, but I
think it's almost the lazy
way out. I don't think
if you're looking at the
quality of the five X
and say, Oh, it's, it's
a lower quality phone, or
it's thicker than the six
P it's just the design
team. I think tried harder
on the five pack. I've
heard that some of these
phones, when you open them
up, they are literally just
swimming in glue. Like they
are, they're filled with glue
almost like it's an, a
kind of, well, And that's
an easy way to put
things together. If you think
about, you know, you have
a case, you can, you
can have a robot squirt
glue and you can slap
the battery in it's. It's
very straightforward to accomplish a
lot of things. It improves
Thermal stability and clear clearers
torsional rigidity. It makes the
device hold together better. If
you drop it, it's easier
to pass some of the
drop tests. So glue absolutely
is, is an easy way
out. It's just, I think
it's, it's a little bit
design laziness. It's a, it's
kind of like having a
function. That's a thousand lines
long. Like you can do
it, but it's not necessarily
a great idea. Is it
easy for them? Like I
know when I go take
my iPhone in to the
Apple store and a genius
looks at it, they disappear,
you know, into the back
somewhere and they do something
and they always come back
faster than I know I
could. Do they have some
special suction cups or something
back there? Or are they
like, yeah. Yeah. So the
iPhone is an interesting case
where the iPhone scores really
highly in our, in our
scores. And you'll note, they're
not going to take a
iPad with a cracked screen
back and show a backup
very quickly. So they don't
have any fancy fast way
to repair iPads. So Apple's
kind of the same thing.
The iPad design team has
decided to make a product
that is very challenging to
repair the iPhone design team
has decided to make something
that's very easy to repair.
So in the case of
the iPhone is it's two
screws on the bottom. They
do have a fancy suction
cup thing, but we sell
something that's pretty similar. And
you suction cup. The thing
open, you can swap the
screen, crack screen, replaced the
display assembly in life on
six or six S in
five minutes, easy Was the,
the six a departure. Like
I seem to remember iPhones
in the four and five
range being hard to open.
Yes. So they went through
some kind of transitions where
the question is, is it
more important to be able
to swap the battery or
the screen on the device?
So on the four you
pop the back off and
it was very straight forward
to get the battery. But
then the screen Mine was
really, really hard to get
to. Okay. And then on
the iPhone five, they, they
flipped it around and, and
they actually made it easy
to get both the screen
and the batteries you pop
the screen up, and then
you can access both then
with the five S they
added a, a touch sensor
and they add a little
cable that made it hard
to pop the screen open
without excellently breaking that cable.
And then what, the six,
they said, Oh, this was
a problem. And they actually
went and rather than around
to make the repair easier,
and they kept that design
with the success. So what
we have seen is that
they have been incrementally making
the iPhone. Well, it seems
like probably because the longer
it's been around people, are
they realizing that this thing
going to live a while,
this is certainly not a
disposable thing. It's a pocket
supercomputer. And I know for
a fact that after a
year, if you charge these
things every day, battery life
suffers. Like I am one
of the people who doesn't
think about battery conditioning. I
plug the thing in at
night and I unplug it
in the morning. Right. Totally
reasonable thing to do 400
battery cycles later. And I
have an iPhone that shuts
off at 30%. Right. And
I want to go in
there and I'm going to
say, you guys better fix
this, fix this battery. Right.
And they say the battery
is not covered under warranty.
So, so, you know, they
have a battery replacement policy.
I think they say $79
and we'll do it on
our schedule. Or you can
mail it to us and
pay us for shipping and
handling. We say, Hey, here's
a battery. It's 20 bucks
or 25 bucks and solid
your own your own time.
It's not going to take
that long. So that's certainly
a better experience. And I
mean, battery life, people don't
realize lithium batteries generally last
about 400 charge cycles. If
you have kind of more
thermal leveling on it. And
some of the Mac books,
they'll, they'll last a thousand
charts cycles, but that's it
at the, at that point,
it's, it's worn out. It's
just like the tires on
your car, whereas out you
need to replace it. And
they were out like when
they were out, they were
out, you know, I, I
was running around Europe a
couple of weeks ago and
it happened to be really,
really cold. And I had
the weirdest thing happened. I'm
looking at my iPhone, the
battery's at 31%. And then
I looked down and it's
at 1% and I looked
down and it's off, off.
Yeah. But yesterday and sitting
in front of my fire,
sitting in front of a
firearm, I ran that thing
all the way down to
one. And it sat at
1% for almost an hour.
Yeah. What was the deal?
Well, batteries are very thermally
sensitive. And you hear about
this with, with the Tesla
model. S if you, if
you see anybody that has
problems with the model less,
they're probably in a Northern
climate, the batteries do not
do as well in, in
cold weather. And that's just
a electrons move slower in
a material that, that you
know, is less conductive and
the colder, these things get.
It's just more of a
challenge chemically. I had my
iPhone four S I had
it for 11 months and
I, you know, was charging
it like twice a day.
And after 11 months, the
battery was just done, the
phone would go into a
boot loop and it just
would never charge enough to
be able to power the
phone. So 11 months in,
like I'm within the warranty,
but the battery isn't covered
under warranty. So battery is,
is something it's, it's, it's
regular maintenance. It's like changing
the oil in your car.
Of course you should be
changing the batteries on these
things every time. Indeed. And
that's the other thing that
makes me think about the,
the longevity of these devices.
I went and got a
couple of speaking spells for
my kids. And when I
opened them up, the only
thing I had to do
was clean 'em out. Cause
they were full of battery
acid, had a couple of
etches in the, you know,
that weren't good, you know,
and I just tied it
up a little bit. It
was mostly a cleaning operation.
Then I popped in some
C batteries and then my
kids are off, but then
fast forward and I found
some devices that were had
internal batteries. They were NiCad
batteries, but they had just
been sitting there forever. And
it seemed like there was
something that needed to have
power to receive power. You
know, like some of these
devices you'd get them. I
remember what it was. It
was a remember that HP
$99 tablet, that everyone was
freaking out about that. Right.
Turns out if you run
that thing dead, that's it?
Because it has to have
power to charge. Wow. That's
a, that's some bad power
engineering. It should be viable.
I mean, a lot of
the times they'll put a
little capacitor in there that
you can charge. I'm sure
that there's a way to
open it up and jumps,
you know, give it a
jumpstart. Right. But it, it,
it gave me this idea
that like, gosh, there must,
there are some devices out
there, especially ones that have
that kind of wireless charging
that, that really don't want
to charge. I've got an
old Microsoft spot watch. That
was one of the first
watches that would sit on
something and in charge. Is
that, was that the word
capacitively Yes. Well, Simply inductively
rather. Pardon me. And it,
it won't charge anymore. Like
I would need to give
it a little bit of
a CPR if I want
to bring it back. Right.
Well, and so I think
this is a question for
either the engineers of the
world is how do we,
we, as consumers are really
bad at making these kinds
of decisions upfront, like no
one who was thinking about
buying an HP web boss
tablet was thinking about these,
these end of life battery
issues at the time. I
mean, I bought one and
I didn't know about it
at the time. So w
but it's clearly in the
best sensors of society, it's
in the best interest of
the environment for us to
be making these decisions at
purchase time and really factoring
these things in. But none
of the product reviewers know
about it. The only people
that really might know are,
are some folks in the,
in the engineering test departments
at these companies, and they
aren't going to say anything.
So we have to make
a decision upfront on whether
to buy something, whether the
support manufacturers that are doing
the right thing or the
wrong thing, and we don't
have the information to make
that decision. And moreover, as
I end you upgrade to
the next iPhone, it's I
think just not environmentally irresponsible,
just regular irresponsible to put
the old iPhone in a
drawer. Right? Yeah. So if
you look at globally, the
number of phones that we
manufacture, it was about 1.6
billion phones. Last year, it's
going to be close to
2 billion phones for, for 2015.
And the question is, how
many phones should we be
manufacturing? So I, I, I
would like to limit, you
know, to have that plateau
and say, we're going to
make a certain number of
phones every year. This is
the environmental footprint that we
expect the electronics industry to
have, but also let's think
about all the people around
the world that sure would
love to have an iPhone
and just are never going
to be able to afford
a brand new phone from
Apple. The best way to
make the iPhone affordable to
folks in Africa is to
make sure that all the
funds that we have now
are still functional six or
eight years from now. No,
certainly in that case, you're
using Africa in the metaphorical
sense. There's people all over
the world that don't have
these smartphones. I like to
actually, when I have a
phone replace the battery and
then I give it to
somebody. So if I have
an iPhone for us, it's
a perfectly good phone. I
spent the 20 bucks, I
swap it out. I replaced
the battery. I literally refresh
the phone and then I
pay it forward. Right? Give
it to a relative. You
know, it was running around
wherever you, wherever your, your
travels are. If someone can
use a phone like that,
you know, definitely pass it
on. Exactly. Exactly. I think,
I think that's a great
perspective and getting a new
battery into these things frequently
is the most important part
of it. Well, and this
would be a good challenge,
a challenge for the listeners,
right? So if you're listening,
right, people who are listening
to this podcast, both of
you go to iFixit click
on devices, pick your phone.
And this is an opportunity
for you. If you've, if
you've never opened up a
phone, do this now after
this podcast go and get
those two or three phones
that, you know, you have
an S3 in your, in
your kitchen. Pop that thing
open. Those are easy to
get an iPhone, get an,
get an iPhone, pop it
open, get a sponger. What's
a sponger. Why do I
need a sponge, Small blast,
plastic pry tool. It's just
a nice non-metal tool for
practice. Yeah. I learned that
the hard way, tried to
use a screwdriver to open
up an iPhone and you
don't take your iPhone, take
your iPad. You know, I
actually gave an a, an
original iPad to my 94
year old aunt. It is
her most favorite device ever,
you know, and, and, and
with, with a good battery,
it's going to run for
a very, very long time.
She loves it. Right. Still
browse the net. Great. Absolutely.
Yup. And she just likes
random stuff on Facebook. That
is great. Good for her.
Yeah, no, I completely agree.
And this is something, I
mean, we have, we have
repair guides for so many
things that, I mean, we
have over 500 different Android
devices, complete this assembly procedures,
how to change the display,
how to change the battery,
how to fix a headphone
Jack, you name it Across,
across a huge variety of
products. Now I know that
you, you don't, you won't,
you know, sell your nails
by talking about how great
your story is, but I
will, because I am an
actual fan. This is not,
not sponsored. But if you
go to  dot com
slash store, they've got these,
these toolkits you can get,
there's like the smartphone repair
kit, which is one level.
And then there's the ProTech
toolkit. And it moves its
way up to this. Like
if you run a repair
business, like I've got a
good friend named brother tech,
it's Terrence gains, brother, BR
O T H a tech
for the tech.com. Check him
out. He's got like the
toolkit, right? It's the complete
everything you need to fix
tech stuff. Now I went
and got the ProTech toolkit,
which has got half dozen
spongers and it's got, you
know, tiny little tweezers and
all the things that I
need to fix stuff around
the house, but my most
favorite thing, and I'm gushing
about it because it's so
cool. Everyone comments on it,
it's sitting right here. It
is the magnetic project mat.
So it's basically like a
magnetic whiteboard with gridded, with
gritted, with lines, with a
grid line. So then you
just take the, take the,
a screw off of the
thing you're taking apart. You
put it onto the mat,
it's magnetic. It sticks to
it. And you just scribble
what the thing is. I
use this thing all the
time. It is brilliant. The
magnetic project mat was something.
When we first started making
it, I was thinking, Oh,
that's nice. That'll be useful.
Every once in a while,
if you have a hard
project, it is amazing. When
you get into these small
devices, organization is like 90%
of the battle. There are
so many tiny screws and
you might not even be
able to visibly see the,
between a millimeter and a
1.5 millimeter screw. But that
can be the difference between
putting it back together and
having it work or not
at the tolerances. And these
things are tiny. So you
have to have a repair
guide and you have to
be very methodical about it.
And the cool thing about
the grid on the mat
is you can have each
grid can be a different
step in the guide. You
just number the grids as
you go. You put the,
all the screws from step
two and box two. Yep.
There's a really great under
the product images. When you
click on the pro magnet
project mat, there's like this
really great image, and it's
very realistic because it's clear
that you're using it. And
it's like, this part goes
in first. You know, I
do this all the time
taking apart like old Dell
laptops, old Dell laptops are
really great devices. Like the
ones they made in the
last five to 10 years,
you can always fix them,
but they've got a million
screws and they're all different
sizes. This has saved me
a number of times. When
did you all move from
repair guides to parts and
tools store? Was that just
the next obvious step? Yeah,
it kind of was. Cause
we had the, we had
the manuals and then people
were saying, well, I can't
fix it. It's, it's great
that you told me how
to fix it, but I
can't get the part. And
so then we started searching
around And then, I mean,
when we were starting at
Wikipedia, it, I mean Jimmy
Wales and the folks that
are running Wikipedia, really my
heroes. And so we were
saying, well, we need to
run. The world, needs a
repair manual for everything. How
can we fund it? And
I know that in December
of every year, Jimmy puts
his face on Wikipedia and
that works for them. I
was trying to figure out
a way I didn't have
to put my face on
my, fix it every December
and bank for donations. And
so we said, well, maybe
we can sell parts and
tools. And so we, we
kinda turned it into a
complete solution where the repair
manual is free. Creative commons.
Licensed will always be that
way. And then, and then
if you want, you can
buy the parts and tools
from him. And that helps
us pay our programmers and
keep the lights on. That
is a really good, really
good solution. And it's almost
like the open source solution
where you charge for one
thing, but you give lots
away. Right? So the repair
guides are creative comments. And
how many of them are
written by your folks versus
the community? Yeah, It's mostly
the community of the last
time I looked we'd written
something like 15% of the
guides on the site, but
people are constantly coming to
me and saying, Hey, do
you have a repair manual
for a toilet or for
an oscilloscope? And I say,
I don't know. I learned
because I used to say,
no, we don't have a
repair manual for that. And
then I would look on
the site and I said,
Oh, shucks, we actually do
have in this whole scope
guide. So I just tell
people to Google it. Cause
I don't even know. I
mean, we've got instructions on,
like somebody puts out like
a real helicopter, there's some
component of the, of the
rotary assembly and they put
repair guides for that on
there we have for a
certain Mercedes chassis, our service
manual now is more comprehensive
than the OEM. Wow. So
what would I went to
repair guides? You know, I
saw the things I expected,
you know, tablet, phone, PC,
then I saw car and
truck. And then if you
go even farther down, you've
got 140 different appliances down
there. You've got household stuff.
So you're not, you know,
music that whole on musical
instruments, you're not intending to
just be about phones and
stuff. You got everything. It's
mission is to teach everyone
in the world, how to
fix all of their things.
And we take that very
seriously and we're comprehensive across
the board. We have, we
have a, I mean, all
kinds of vehicles, there's a
specific moped. I think it's
a 1978 moped and somebody
took it apart post to
the guide and then other
people came on and started
asking questions about it and
it's evolved. And now we're
the number one place that
you go. If you have
this 1978 moped, all the
people on the internet trying
to fix these things are
on. I fix it. So
you've got tear downs, you've
got fix it guides, but
you've also got kind of
a support question. It's kind
of a stack overflow for
repair kind of thing. So
this is stack overflow for
repair. I know Jeff Atwood
very well. And as we
were building this, I was
talking with him and I
said, Hey, you know, I
was going to build up
my own thing. But what
you guys did is so
amazing. Can I like flat
out, copy it and tweak
it for repair? And he
said, yes, absolutely. Please do.
Oh, wow. So answers is,
I mean, it's a, it's
a Q and a forum
it's device centric. So we're
stack overflow is organized around
tags. I fix is organized
around products. So I'm pretty
sure there is no question
about an iPhone five that
you're going to have that
is not already answered on
the site. Very cool. And
it goes across the board.
We have people they've Atari
2,600, Hey, you know, my
Atari 2,600 stopped working. Can
I fix it? Like people
are actively still repairing these
things. There are new questions
that come in all the
time, even on vintage hardware
like that. Yeah. There is
a I'm looking here right
now at the Atari 2,600
repair and you've got tear
downs. Now, who does the
tear downs? Is that also,
is that also the community,
The most high profile tear
down? So the ones that
you usually see on the
news are done by us,
but the latest tear down
that's on the site is
a Sony experience.  that
was written by a community
member. We were so busy
getting ready for the iPad
pro this week, Lanka beat
us to it. So that's
great. How often I'm just
curious. Cause I think we
all see these tear down
things and we're like, Oh
no, I can't believe they
took apart. That expensive thing.
How often do you get
them back together again? And
how often do you just
have to throw them away?
It depends on if it's
a Microsoft surface or not.
Most of the devices, we
definitely get back together and
we use like, in our
tear down room, we have
an Amazon echo. That's the
echo that we use for
the tear down. And that's
our, that's our music device.
So absolutely. We get most
of the things back together.
Some stuff that's super challenging.
Like the surface, you know,
Humpty Dumpty might not be
a look at the surface
back together again. So you
failed to reassemble the surface
in somewhere. They were just
surface parts, The surface principle
and around, I mean, one
of them, I mean, even
I think the surface three,
we got back together when
we were, we were using
it. I don't know that
we tried to put the
surface Back together. That was
just a, that was just
last week. So there's the
surface pro and the surface
book, the book is the
one with the fancy hinge.
Correct. And that's a pretty
elegant machine. And that, that
was a long tear down.
That was a long day.
Yeah. That look it's, there's
like a, some looking here
as step 30. Yeah. 30
different steps. And I assume
that that was pulling both
of them apart. Really? Yeah.
Now, Now one thing to
note. So even though our
tear downs and our repair
guides are in the same
format, we listed 30 steps
for the tear down, but
that's more like telling the
story of how we took
it apart. It's not a
good idea to follow a
tear down, to do an
actual repair. So when we
go to actually write the
surface book repair manual, it
will be far more 30
steps long. Have you ever
not been able to get
something open without breaking it?
Yeah, we break stuff. Absolutely.
I mean the original iPad
while the iPad two, we
broke, we broke the first
like five or six iPad
twos that we took apart.
I think the original couple
surfaces, I don't know. Did
we, did we break this
in the process of pulling
it apart? I'm looking at
the surface book. I don't,
I don't think we, so
this one we managed to
get intact. It really depends
on the product. Like the,
so the iPod shuffles are
a disposable product and I
don't think it's possible that
this was assemble those without
breaking them, the new apples,
new keyboards and mice have
integrated batteries. And I don't
know that it's possible to
pull those apart without irrevocably
damaging them. We've gotten pretty
good at it, but it's
really the design that we're
up against more than anything
else. If it's possible to
disassemble it, usually we can
do it the first. Do,
do you buy the items?
Yes, we do. So no.
One's giving you these things
to tear apart. Yeah. Almost
all the time. We're we're
going out and buying them
sometimes like the pebble. I
think they wanted the us
to get in early. So
they sent us one early,
but I'll almost all of
the time we're out there
buying them ourselves. We don't
get help from the manufacturer.
Very cool. And kind of
my final question is I
suggested repairing a battery on
a phone, but what's a
good starter fix. If you've
never really taken something apart,
I think fixing a battery
or swapping out a screen
on the phone, this is
a great start. It really
depends on the phone. Like
I wouldn't do that on
an HTC one, but on
life, on there, a Samsung
as five, like absolutely get
in there. I, as for,
as for the S not
the S the S five
got harder. There's a lot
of things. I mean, sometimes
it's like, just pick something
that you have that doesn't
work. So I would look
around your house and pick
something that's broken and do
that because it doesn't really
matter if it's already broken
and you take it apart
and you try to fix
it. And at the end
it does, it still doesn't
work. You didn't really lose
anything. That's a good attitude.
That's I mean, that's ultimately
how I think most of
us started. I think the
first thing I ever took
apart was a remote control.
And then I went up
to the, the legendary clock
radio telephone. Right. And once
I got that working, then
I was like, I can
take apart anything. Right. Kind
of work your way through
it. And I mean, that's,
I mean, there's a joy
of tinkering and getting inside
these things, we'll do events
with middle schoolers and we'll
say, Hey, do you want
to take this iPod apart?
And they look at us
like, we're crazy because every
adult in their life has
been telling them, don't take
things apart. And we say,
no, it's okay. Take it
apart. Once they get past
their fear, they start to
get inside their eyes just
light up and they can't
stop and they never leave.
So that's, we need to
Get back to a society
where we, where we understand
and enjoy tinkering. I think
it will lead us to
make better purchasing decisions up
front. And it'll also, I
think probably lead to better
public policy down the road,
you know, and I usually
will echo that and suggest
that one of the things
that I do with my
kids all the time, and
I recommend to all parents,
if you've got a few
good kids, or if you're
an uncle or an aunt
go to a Goodwill or
a, a, you know, anywhere,
a swap meet that you
can find broken stuff, get
your kid a Leatherman tool,
find an item and just
let them take it apart.
Right. Just let them literally
just rip the thing apart.
Even if they have to
break the plastic and just,
just, you know, just destroy
it, then work your way
up to taking it apart
gracefully and then fix the
thing. Exactly. That's exactly right.
And it's such an amazing
experience for kids and to
be able to get inside
and understand, Oh, that's how
it works. Oh, there's a
battery inside. Wow. I didn't
know idea. It's, it's a,
it's a wonderful process. It's
a lot of fun and
it develops skills that will
save you money down the
road. Very cool. Kyle Wiens
thanks so much for talking
to me today. Thank you.
This has been another episode
of Hanselminutes and we'll see
you again next week.